Business Plan
This is an open business plan. It reflects the value of the STEMspace organization, which is that open and free access facilitates collaboration and ultimately provides the best user experience. In this case, the user is a STEMspace member. Membership is available to nearly all individuals and organizations at very low-costs or even free for qualifiers such as students, educators or contributors.

This business plan is publicly accessible for the sake of transparency, but also to allow users to make their own contributions to the business model. Suggestions and thoughts are always welcomed and every idea will be thoroughly reviewed and considered for implementation. You may edit this document at any time, as well as review other’s edits, as a STEMspace member.

STEMspace
Kutztown PA 19530  |  610-301-2817  |  dev@stemspace.org

Table of Contents
Executive Summary
General Company Description
Products and Services
Marketing Plan
Operational Plan
Management and Organization
Personal Financial Statement
Startup Expenses and Capitalization
Financial Plan
Appendices
Refining the Plan
Executive Summary
This section should be the last part that is written out, but will be the first part displayed in the plan, therefore it is not complete at this point. To summarize a few key points, STEMspace is fundamentally a resource for individuals and organizations regardless of their background and goals, who can benefit from free or cheap access to otherwise expensive resources. The STEMspace facility will provide access to anything from CNC machines, basic tools, testing equipment, materials and more.

STEMspace is a non-profit organization and will be run by people who are experts in diverse fields such as robotics, art, carpentry, metalsmithing, photography, business, and more. The open-source movement is a catalyst to an amazing future of discovery, invention, and problem solving. Open-source development in any field (not just software and technology) is the most efficient means of developing something to become the best it can possibly be. It encourages collaboration and effort among many capable people, all whom benefit by being able to take advantage of other people’s contributions as well. It is a win-win-win situation, a perfect solution to classic game theory dilemmas in traditional business models.

General Company Description
STEMspace is in the business of technology development and education, although it is extremely multidisciplinary as it can serve nearly any industry or field.

Mission Statement
Our mission is to provide free resources to those of the STEM and Maker community and to promote open-source collaboration for educational and technological achievement.

Company Goals and Objectives
STEMspace’s goals are to facilitate education and creation in the technology field, as well as promote collaboration and sharing of resources of knowledge for the sake of improving the efficiency of economic flow. We want to allow businesses to grow and improve, help people realize their passions, and educate the general population in whichever fields they pursue. We want to make a global contribution to society in small and large ways. An example of such contribution would be to develop a technological solution to a big problem.

Objectives:
Acquire a space to host the equipment and resources.
Design the layout and implement an optimal structure for making and collaborating.
Begin recruiting users through intensive marketing plan.
Host classes on specific fields and skills development.
Obtain valuable partnerships which allow other organizations to utilize our resources for their own benefit.
Become a community hotspot for activity.
Begin producing valuable products and services.
Become even more accessible than before and expand to new locations.
Business Philosophy
The most important aspect is user engagement. STEMspace needs people and organizations to consistently utilize the resources we can provide whether it’s 3d printers, tensile-strength testing machines, laser cutters or robotics labs. Prime demographics includes people involved in the maker community, STEM students, technology businesses, and professionals in any field.

The industry STEMspace competes with is one that barely exists. It as an open-source facility that brings industries together to share similar resources. It allows businesses to cut costs for resources they need by sharing the costs with other people. The business industry that STEMspace falls into is not clear, since the objective is to offer a service to any industry that needs resources.

What makes STEMspace succeed is the benefit it provides to everyone. We help other organizations improve or profit more by allowing them to participate in our operations. The skills required to operate this model requires a diverse set of technical skills which can be outsourced to either freelance professionals, other companies, or in some cases in-house. The biggest factor for success is the ability to network and help other’s realize the potential THEY have by becoming a member of the STEMspace organization and community.

Products and Services
The primary service is to provide access to equipment and materials at an affordable cost and in some cases completely free of charge. As the organization grows, it may develop goods on its own, depending on the direction it moves which is based on the current demand and usage of the facility.

This service is valuable because there is simply no other facility with such an extensive and easily accessible resource. The costs are low if not totally free, and the help it provides is what keeps STEMspace a live. The consumers are part of the service in many ways. More details can be found in the appendices section.

Example Payment Plan:
Commercial Plan
Cost + 10-30% markup (negotiable and scalable)
Designs and productions eligible for commercial and private use.

Regular Plan
Cost (materials, overhead, equipment, staff, etc.) + 0-5% markup.
All designs subject to creative commons licensing.

Special Plan
Free – Users must apply and are subject to STEMspace approval
Terms of acceptance will vary and depend on causes, education, contributions, and other benefits.

Marketing Plan
Although the idea of “If we build it, they will come” is extremely enticing, it is not realistic. Word of mouth is not powerful enough by itself to relay the message to all individuals who can benefit from STEMspace. Therefore, a comprehensive marketing plan is to be headed with the efforts of Strunk Marketing and their affiliates. A more detailed description of the plan can be found in the appendices section.

Market Research
Preliminary
To acquire first-hand data about the potential market for STEMspace, representatives will seek out letters of commitment and possibly pledges from nearby organizations. A lead-generation process will take place to identify potentially hundreds of organizations to reach out to, such as local high schools, businesses and individual consumers in the STEM or maker community. An example of a commitment letter and pledge request can be found in the appendix. This process will be implemented from the time of creating this document till launch and updated accordingly. A list of contacts and minutes will be kept as well for records. We will also list some self-derived data such as local population, traffic, and qualitative demand for the product and service that STEMspace offers.

Secondary
We will accumulate industry profiles in this section and provide specific numbers regarding census data, demographics and publications. For example, articles from large journal companies that discuss the need for ‘Fab Labs’ may be relevant towards our secondary market research campaign.

Economics
Size of market?
Percent share expected?
Current demand in target market?
Trends in target market:
Growth
Consumer preferences
Product development
Growth potential and opportunity
Barriers of entry?
Costs
Capital
Production
Marketing
Branding and consumer acceptance
Training and skills
Unique technology and patents
Liability
How to overcome barriers?
How will changes in (blank) affect the company?
technology
government regulations
economics
industry
Product (from customer’s view)
Features and Benefits:
Daily, open access (affordable or free) to unique resources
Networking opportunities and exposure
benefit 1
benefit 2
Expert help and consultation
benefit 1
benefit 2
Classes and instruction
benefit 1
benefit 2
Goods such as tools, materials, and products
benefit 1
benefit 2
Customers
Demographic Profile 1: Maker Community
Age
Gender
Location
Income
Social Class
Interests
Education
Demographic Profile 2: Education
Universities
Highschools
Homeschoolers
Demographic Profile 3: Businesses
Tech companies
Inventors
Developers
Marketing agencies
Retailers
Competition
FabLab
[insert competitive analysis table]

Follow up with competitive advantages and disadvantages.

Maker Space
[insert competitive analysis table]

Follow up with competitive advantages and disadvantages.

Niche
STEMspace’s niche is to be an open design facility with unique collaboration efforts.

Strategy
Promotion
There will be many avenues of promoting STEMspace. For starters, the full spectrum of internet marketing techniques will be employed. These pillars include web development, search engine optimization, search engine marketing, network targeting, social media, reputation management, community engagement, email marketing, and more. There will also be direct outreach and large-scale networking opportunities by personally reaching out to large companies, educational institutions, promoters, and individual influencers.

Promotional Budget
The internet marketing budget will allocate $3,250 per month for full-scale marketing and web development services. Other approaches of marketing will be done in-house or contracted accordingly. As the operation scales, so should the marketing plan.

Pricing
There will be multiple tiers of pricing. As previously outline, one sample plan will accommodate special use, general use, and commercial use. The full pricing guide can be found in the appendix.

Proposed Location
The location may be on one of multiple options at this point in time. One option is on campus of a nearby University, namely Kutztown. Other options include warehouse buildings in the Kutztown area or as close to Kutztown University as possible for the hopes of developing a relationship or partner ship with KU and their students.

Distribution Channels
Walk-in
Retail and ecommerce
Referral
Agents
Sales Forecast
“Best Guess”
“Worst Case Scenario”
Operational Plan
Production
The products and service mainly include access to equipment and expert consultants or technicians. The equipment will be sourced via donations from distributors or purchased from a plethora of sources including direct from the manufacturer, Amazon, and other sources as needed. Expert consultants will be hired as freelance specialists and used on an as-needed basis. Technicians will be employed full or part-time, preferably as graduate students or interns from partnering institutions.

STEMspace and the members will eventually begin producing their own goods which can be marketed to the public. Classes will also be offered for many purposes, including general learning, accredited courses, and job-specific training.

Location
The minimum requirements for a location include the following technical specifications:

1400 square feet
1 water sink with hot and cold
8 4-plug outlets with 110 V
1 220-240 V
1 ventilation to outside for fumes
The ideal location will be 20 miles or more from competing vendors, but within a 3 or more large organizations with a vested interested in the space. Current examples include Kutztown University, East Penn Deka manufacturing plant, Air Products and several small high schools.

Several possible design plans are laid out in the appendix section.

The cost can vary based on location, but we will outline the least and most expensive current options.

Legal Environment
Personnel
Inventory
Suppliers
Credit Policies
Managing Accounts Receivable

Managing Accounts Payable

Management and Organization
Professional and Advisory Support
Director(s)
Devin Peterson
Board Members
Matthew Strunk
Paul Quinn
Delores Peterson
Attorney, insurance agent, banker, consultant(s), mentors, etc…
Personal Financial Statement
devin peterson financial statement

Startup Expenses and Capitalization
The main costs of starting include the facility, equipment, and personnel. Current estimates indicate a first-year cost of 100k, plus yearly operating costs of 80k or more.

Initial capital will come from private donations, grants, and funding from partners.

Financial Plan
12-Month Profit and Loss Projection
Four-Year Profit Projection
Projected Cash Flow
Opening Day Balance Sheet
Break-Even Analysis
Appendices
Brochures
Studies
Blueprints, layouts, plans, and schematics
Maps and photos
Articles
Detailed list of equipment
Leases and contracts
Refining the Plan
